.\" Copyright (c) 2020-2022 by Alejandro Colomar <colomar.6.4.3@gmail.com>
.\" and Copyright (c) 2020 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"
.TH AIOCB-STRUCT 3 2021-11-02 Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
aiocb-struct \- asynchronous I/O control block
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <aio.h>
.PP
.B struct aiocb {
.BR "    int             aio_fildes;" "     /* File descriptor */"
.BR "    off_t           aio_offset;" "     /* File offset */"
.BR "    volatile void  *aio_buf;" "        /* Location of buffer */"
.BR "    size_t          aio_nbytes;" "     /* Length of transfer */"
.BR "    int             aio_reqprio;" "    /* Request priority offset */"
.BR "    struct sigevent aio_sigevent;" "   /* Signal number and value */"
.BR "    int             aio_lio_opcode;" " /* Operation to be performed */"
.B };
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
For further information about this structure, see
.BR aio (7).
.SH CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001 and later.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR aio_cancel (3),
.BR aio_error (3),
.BR aio_fsync (3),
.BR aio_read (3),
.BR aio_return (3),
.BR aio_suspend (3),
.BR aio_write (3),
.BR lio_listio (3)
