.\" Copyright (c) 2020-2022 by Alejandro Colomar <colomar.6.4.3@gmail.com>
.\" and Copyright (c) 2020 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"
.TH DOUBLE_T 3 2021-11-02 Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
float_t, double_t \- most efficient floating types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.BR typedef " /* ... */ " float_t;
.BR typedef " /* ... */ " double_t;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The implementation's most efficient floating types at least as wide as
.I float
and
.I double
respectively.
Their type depends on the value of the macro
.B FLT_EVAL_METHOD
(defined in
.IR <float.h> ):
.PP
.TS
lB rI rI.
FLT_EVAL_METHOD	float_t	double_t
.T&
n rI rI.
_
0	float	double
1	double	double
2	long double	long double
.TE
.PP
For other values of
.BR FLT_EVAL_METHOD ,
the types of
.I float_t
and
.I double_t
are implementation-defined.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C99 and later; POSIX.1-2001 and later.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR float.h (0p),
.BR math.h (0p)
