.\" Copyright (c) 2020-2022 by Alejandro Colomar <colomar.6.4.3@gmail.com>
.\" and Copyright (c) 2020 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"
.TH LCONV-STRUCT 3 2021-11-02 Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
struct lconv \- numeric formatting information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <locale.h>
.PP
.BR "struct lconv {" "                /* Values in the \(dqC\(dq locale: */"
.BR "    char *decimal_point;" "      /* \(dq.\(dq */"
.BR "    char *thousands_sep;" "      /* \(dq\(dq */"
.BR "    char *grouping;" "           /* \(dq\(dq */"
.BR "    char *mon_decimal_point;" "  /* \(dq\(dq */"
.BR "    char *mon_thousands_sep;" "  /* \(dq\(dq */"
.BR "    char *mon_grouping;" "       /* \(dq\(dq */"
.BR "    char *positive_sign;" "      /* \(dq\(dq */"
.BR "    char *negative_sign;" "      /* \(dq\(dq */"
.BR "    char *currency_symbol;" "    /* \(dq\(dq */"
.BR "    char  frac_digits;" "        /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  p_cs_precedes;" "      /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  n_cs_precedes;" "      /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  p_sep_by_space;" "     /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  n_sep_by_space;" "     /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  p_sign_posn;" "        /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  n_sign_posn;" "        /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char *int_curr_symbol;" "    /* \(dq\(dq */"
.BR "    char  int_frac_digits;" "    /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  int_p_cs_precedes;" "  /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  int_n_cs_precedes;" "  /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  int_p_sep_by_space;" " /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  int_n_sep_by_space;" " /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  int_p_sign_posn;" "    /* CHAR_MAX */"
.BR "    char  int_n_sign_posn;" "    /* CHAR_MAX */"
.B };
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Contains members related to the formatting of numeric values.
In the "C" locale, its members have the values
shown in the comments above.
.SH CONFORMING TO
C11 and later; POSIX.1-2001 and later.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR localeconv (3),
.BR charsets (7),
.BR locale (7)
