.\" Copyright 2004 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Linux-man-pages-copyleft
.\"
.\" Inspired by a page by Walter Harms created 2002-08-10
.\"
.TH LOGB 3 (date) "Linux man-pages (unreleased)"
.SH NAME
logb, logbf, logbl \- get exponent of a floating-point value
.SH LIBRARY
Math library
.RI ( libm ", " \-lm )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.PP
.BI "double logb(double " x );
.BI "float logbf(float " x );
.BI "long double logbl(long double " x );
.fi
.PP
.RS -4
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.RE
.PP
.BR logb ():
.nf
    _ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200112L
        || _XOPEN_SOURCE >= 500
.\"    || _XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
        || /* Since glibc 2.19: */ _DEFAULT_SOURCE
        || /* Glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.fi
.PP
.BR logbf (),
.BR logbl ():
.nf
    _ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200112L
        || /* Since glibc 2.19: */ _DEFAULT_SOURCE
        || /* Glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions extract the exponent from the
internal floating-point representation of
.I x
and return it as a floating-point value.
The integer constant
.BR FLT_RADIX ,
defined in
.IR <float.h> ,
indicates the radix used for the system's floating-point representation.
If
.B FLT_RADIX
is 2,
.BI logb( x )
is equal to
.BI floor(log2( x ))\fR,
except that it is probably faster.
.PP
If
.I x
is subnormal,
.BR logb ()
returns the exponent
.I x
would have if it were normalized.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, these functions return the exponent of
.IR x .
.PP
If
.I x
is a NaN,
a NaN is returned.
.PP
If
.I x
is zero, then a pole error occurs, and the functions return
.RB \- HUGE_VAL ,
.RB \- HUGE_VALF ,
or
.RB \- HUGE_VALL ,
respectively.
.PP
If
.I x
is negative infinity or positive infinity, then
positive infinity is returned.
.SH ERRORS
See
.BR math_error (7)
for information on how to determine whether an error has occurred
when calling these functions.
.PP
The following errors can occur:
.TP
Pole error: \fIx\fP is 0
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR ERANGE .
A divide-by-zero floating-point exception
.RB ( FE_DIVBYZERO )
is raised.
.PP
These functions do not set
.IR errno .
.\" FIXME . Is it intentional that these functions do not set errno?
.\" log(), log2(), log10() do set errno
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6793
.\"
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" The
.\" .BR logb ()
.\" function occurs in 4.3BSD.
.\" see IEEE.3 in the 4.3BSD manual
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.ad l
.nh
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR logb (),
.BR logbf (),
.BR logbl ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.hy
.ad
.sp 1
.SH STANDARDS
C99, POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ilogb (3),
.BR log (3)
