.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Linux-man-pages-copyleft
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_KILL_OTHER_THREADS_NP 3 2021-03-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_kill_other_threads_np \- terminate all other threads in process
.SH LIBRARY
POSIX threads library
.RI ( libpthread ", " \-lpthread )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>
.PP
.B void pthread_kill_other_threads_np(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pthread_kill_other_threads_np ()
has an effect only in the LinuxThreads threading implementation.
On that implementation,
calling this function causes the immediate termination of
all threads in the application,
except the calling thread.
The cancelation state and cancelation type of the
to-be-terminated threads are ignored,
and the cleanup handlers are not called in those threads.
.\" .SH VERSIONS
.\" Available since glibc 2.0
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.ad l
.nh
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pthread_kill_other_threads_np ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.hy
.ad
.sp 1
.SH STANDARDS
This function is a nonstandard GNU extension;
hence the suffix "_np" (nonportable) in the name.
.SH NOTES
.BR pthread_kill_other_threads_np ()
is intended to be called just before a thread calls
.BR execve (2)
or a similar function.
This function is designed to address a limitation in the obsolete
LinuxThreads implementation whereby the other threads of an application
are not automatically terminated (as POSIX.1-2001 requires) during
.BR execve (2).
.PP
In the NPTL threading implementation,
.BR pthread_kill_other_threads_np ()
exists, but does nothing.
(Nothing needs to be done,
because the implementation does the right thing during an
.BR execve (2).)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR execve (2),
.BR pthread_cancel (3),
.BR pthread_setcancelstate (3),
.BR pthread_setcanceltype (3),
.BR pthreads (7)
