.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Linux-man-pages-copyleft
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_TESTCANCEL 3 2021-03-22 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pthread_testcancel \- request delivery of any pending cancelation request
.SH LIBRARY
POSIX threads library
.RI ( libpthread ", " \-lpthread )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pthread.h>
.PP
.B void pthread_testcancel(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Calling
.BR pthread_testcancel ()
creates a cancelation point within the calling thread,
so that a thread that is otherwise executing code that contains
no cancelation points will respond to a cancelation request.
.PP
If cancelability is disabled (using
.BR pthread_setcancelstate (3)),
or no cancelation request is pending,
then a call to
.BR pthread_testcancel ()
has no effect.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function does not return a value.
If the calling thread is canceled as a consequence of a call
to this function, then the function does not return.
.SH ERRORS
This function always succeeds.
.\" SH VERSIONS
.\" Available since glibc 2.0
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.ad l
.nh
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR pthread_testcancel ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.hy
.ad
.sp 1
.SH STANDARDS
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.SH EXAMPLES
See
.BR pthread_cleanup_push (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pthread_cancel (3),
.BR pthread_cleanup_push (3),
.BR pthread_setcancelstate (3),
.BR pthreads (7)
