.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Linux-man-pages-copyleft
.\"
.TH SETLOGMASK 3 (date) "Linux man-pages (unreleased)"
.SH NAME
setlogmask \- set log priority mask
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C library
.RI ( libc ", " \-lc )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <syslog.h>
.PP
.BI "int setlogmask(int " mask );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A process has a log priority mask that determines which calls to
.BR syslog (3)
may be logged.
All other calls will be ignored.
Logging is enabled for the priorities that have the corresponding
bit set in
.IR mask .
The initial mask is such that logging is enabled for all priorities.
.PP
The
.BR setlogmask ()
function sets this logmask for the calling process,
and returns the previous mask.
If the mask argument is 0, the current logmask is not modified.
.PP
The eight priorities are
.BR LOG_EMERG ,
.BR LOG_ALERT ,
.BR LOG_CRIT ,
.BR LOG_ERR ,
.BR LOG_WARNING ,
.BR LOG_NOTICE ,
.BR LOG_INFO ,
and
.BR LOG_DEBUG .
The bit corresponding to a priority
.I p
is
.IR LOG_MASK(p) .
Some systems also provide a macro
.I LOG_UPTO(p)
for the mask
of all priorities in the above list up to and including
.IR p .
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns the previous log priority mask.
.SH ERRORS
None.
.\" .SH NOTES
.\" The glibc logmask handling was broken in versions before glibc 2.1.1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.ad l
.nh
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR setlogmask ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Unsafe race:LogMask
.TE
.hy
.ad
.sp 1
.SH STANDARDS
POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008.
.\" Note that the description in POSIX.1-2001 is flawed.
.PP
.BR LOG_UPTO ()
will be included in the next release of the POSIX specification (Issue 8).
.\" FIXME . https://www.austingroupbugs.net/view.php?id=1033
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR closelog (3),
.BR openlog (3),
.BR syslog (3)
