.\" Copyright (c) Bruno Haible <haible@clisp.cons.org>
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"   GNU glibc-2 source code and manual
.\"   Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/
.\"   OpenGroup's Single UNIX specification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html
.\"
.TH WCSDUP 3 2022-09-09 "Linux man-pages (unreleased)"
.SH NAME
wcsdup \- duplicate a wide-character string
.SH LIBRARY
Standard C library
.RI ( libc ", " \-lc )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <wchar.h>
.PP
.BI "wchar_t *wcsdup(const wchar_t *" s );
.fi
.PP
.RS -4
Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)):
.RE
.PP
.BR wcsdup ():
.nf
    Since glibc 2.10:
        _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200809L
    Before glibc 2.10:
        _GNU_SOURCE
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR wcsdup ()
function is the wide-character equivalent
of the
.BR strdup (3)
function.
It allocates and returns a new wide-character string whose initial
contents is a duplicate of the wide-character string pointed to by
.IR s .
.PP
Memory for the new wide-character string is
obtained with
.BR malloc (3),
and should be freed with
.BR free (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR wcsdup ()
returns a pointer to the new wide-character string.
On error, it returns NULL, with
.I errno
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory available to allocate duplicate string.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.ad l
.nh
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR wcsdup ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE
.hy
.ad
.sp 1
.SH STANDARDS
POSIX.1-2008.
This function is not specified in POSIX.1-2001,
and is not widely available on other systems.
.\" present in libc5 and glibc 2.0 and later
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR strdup (3),
.BR wcscpy (3)
